---
layout: page
status: publish
published: true
title: MSA
author:
  display_name: graiz
  login: graiz
  email: graiz@raizlabs.com
  url: ''
author_login: graiz
author_email: graiz@raizlabs.com
wordpress_id: 6090
wordpress_url: http://www.raizlabs.com/?page_id=6090
date: '2013-10-30 21:46:16 -0400'
date_gmt: '2013-10-31 01:46:16 -0400'
categories: []
tags: []
comments: []
---
<h2>Raizlabs Corporation - Master Services Agreement</h2>
<p>This Master Services Agreement (“Agreement”), effective as of the date (“Effective Date”) set forth in any Statements of Work (“SOW”), is entered into between a Client, and Raizlabs Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation having a principal business address at 10 Milk St. Suite 1150 MA, 02108 (“Raizlabs”), and sets forth the terms and conditions on which Raizlabs agrees to develop for Client certain software, designs, wireframes, mockups, or other deliverables, and associated documentation (collectively, the “Deliverables”) described in the Statement(s) of Work attached hereto.<br />
1. Development Process. Development of the Deliverables (the “Project”) will proceed in accordance with the process described in this Section 1.</p>
<p>1.1. Statement of Work. The scope of the services to be performed by Raizlabs hereunder (the “Services”) is set forth in one or more statements of work attached hereto (each, a “Statement of Work”), that specifies the design, general functionality and detailed requirements specification of the Deliverables (the “Specifications”). Each Statement of Work shall be governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Additional Statements of Work may be entered into by written agreement of the parties and shall be governed by this Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions set forth in a Statement of Work and the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the terms of the Statement of Work shall govern.</p>
<p>1.2. Implementation. Upon mutual execution hereof, by the parties to this Agreement, Raizlabs will develop and code the Deliverables in accordance with the applicable Statement of Work.</p>
<p>1.3. Deliverables testing and delivery. Upon completion of development, Raizlabs will test the Deliverables in accordance with the test plan set forth in the Statement of Work (the “Test Plan”) and, following successful testing, will deliver the Deliverables to Client.</p>
<p>1.4. Acceptance. Client will have a period of thirty (30) calendar days after delivery of the proposed final version of the Deliverables or any corrected version thereof (the “Test Period”) in which to carry out acceptance testing. If the Deliverables fail to conform to the specifications in any material respect, including any instances of crashing, minor bug fixes, or correction of erroneous text elements (a “Defect”), Client shall notify Raizlabs in writing before the expiration of the Test Period and shall specify in reasonable detail all Defects observed during the Test Period. Raizlabs shall revise the Deliverables to correct all Defects specified during the Test Period and shall deliver the revised Deliverables to Client. For fixed fee projects, Defects raised within the Test Period shall be fixed without additional charge. For time and materials Projects, all work performed by Raizlabs to revise or correct the Defects will be billed and payable on a time and materials basis, at Raizlabs’s current rates charged for personnel performing such work (“Raizlabs’s Current Rates”). This process shall be repeated until the Deliverables are accepted, provided that the Deliverables will be deemed to have been accepted upon the earliest of (i) expiration of any Test Period without notice of any Defect by Client; or (ii) use of the Deliverables by Client in its operations or as otherwise intended upon execution of the applicable Statement of Work. For the avoidance of doubt and without limitation, Defects covered under this Section 1.4 shall not include adding new functionality or pages, replacing large sections of an application, or any re-architecture except as may be necessary to fix covered Defects.</p>
<p>1.5. Project Budget and Schedule. For time and materials Projects, Raizlabs’s estimated budget and schedule for the completion of the Project is set forth in the Statement of Work. Client understands that such estimates shall not be binding upon Raizlabs and are subject to change from time to time. Raizlabs will use commercially reasonable efforts to complete development of the Deliverables in accordance with such budget and schedule. Client understands, however, that software development is subject to substantial uncertainties and agrees that Raizlabs will not be liable for any cost increases or delays that may occur.</p>
<p>1.6. Project Changes. Client may, upon not less than ten (10) days’ written notice, request changes to the scope of the Project (“Project Changes”). Upon such request, Raizlabs will prepare an estimate of the costs required to complete the changes and, if agreed to by Client, the parties shall execute a Statement of Work reflecting such changes.</p>
<p>1.7. App Development. For any Statement of Work that includes the development of Deliverables intended to be run on the Apple iPhone, iPod Touch platforms, iPad Platform and/or Android Marketplace the following terms and conditions shall apply:</p>
<p>(a) Client hereby requests that, and authorizes Raizlabs to submit on Client’s behalf, the Deliverables to the appropriate App Store for review and approval, including listing of the Deliverables as an application available for purchase through the iTunes or Android Store. Client shall provide all necessary authentication credentials to Raizlabs and Client hereby authorizes the use of such credentials for the purpose of effecting the foregoing review and approval process. Client shall provide to Raizlabs all requisite information, including pricing, product description, and similar data, necessary for Raizlabs’s submission of the Deliverables to Apple and/or Google.</p>
<p>(b) Client acknowledges that Raizlabs makes no guarantee regarding the acceptance of the Deliverables by Apple and/or Google and that the Deliverables may be permanently rejected without recourse. To the extent reasonably possible, Raizlabs agrees to make commercially reasonable efforts to modify the Deliverables in order to achieve acceptance, in accordance with the Acceptance Testing procedure set out at Section 1.4 above, however any changes to the scope of the project, regardless of whether they are necessary to obtain approval, shall be made in accordance with Section 1.6 of this Agreement. Any final rejection of the Deliverables shall have no effect on the Client’s obligations under this Agreement.</p>
<p>(c) If the Deliverables include an application containing a “credits page” listing either developers or contributors, Client hereby authorizes Raizlabs to include reference to Raizlabs’ development contributions in such credits page. Raizlabs may publicly discuss its role in the development of the Deliverables and may make use of screenshots of the Deliverables in order to promote Raizlabs’ services or business.</p>
<ol>
<li>Compensation</li>
</ol>
<p>2.1. Basis of Compensation. Projects may be billed on either a fixed fee or a time and materials basis, and all Projects shall require the payment of an initial deposit. For fixed fee Projects, compensation requirements including payment amounts, deposit requirements, and due dates, shall be set forth in an applicable Statement of Work. For time and materials Projects, Raizlabs’ Current Rates, budget estimates, as well as initial deposit requirements, are set forth in the controlling Statement of Work and are subject to change from time to time upon thirty (30) days’ notice. If this Agreement is terminated for any reason before acceptance of the Deliverables, Client shall pay Raizlabs for any Services performed through the termination date, including a pro-rated amount for any partially completed fixed fee Projects.</p>
<p>2.2. Expenses. Client will reimburse Raizlabs for all travel and other out-of-pocket expenses, if any, reasonably incurred by Raizlabs in connection with work performed for the Project. Charges for expense reimbursement may be included in invoices presented under Section 2.3 or may be invoiced separately.</p>
<p>2.3. Payment Terms. For time and materials projects, Raizlabs will submit invoices to Client for compensation and expense reimbursement on a monthly basis, or as described in an applicable Statement of Work. Payment of each invoice will be due within thirty (30) days of the date of such invoice. For fixed fee projects, payments shall be due and will be made in accordance with the schedule set out in the applicable Statement of Work. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Raizlabs reasonably determines that Client’s credit is impaired, including, without limitation, as a result of any default by Client in the payment of any amount due to Raizlabs, Raizlabs may require payment in advance or establish such other payment terms as are reasonable in the circumstances.</p>
<p>2.4. Taxes. Client shall pay all taxes arising from this Agreement, exclusive of taxes based on Raizlabs’s income.</p>
<ol>
<li>Obligations of Client</li>
</ol>
<p>3.1. Client Provided Resources. Client understands that successful and timely completion of the Project depends on the full cooperation and support of Client and its personnel. Accordingly, Client agrees to provide Raizlabs promptly with information requested by Raizlabs regarding Client’s business requirements, systems and processes; access to knowledgeable personnel for purposes of consultation regarding business and information needs arising in connection with the Deliverables; and such additional information, facilities and support as may be specified in the Statement of Work. Raizlabs shall not be liable for any failures or delays in performance to the extent they are caused by Client’s failure to comply with the obligations set forth in this Section 3.1.</p>
<ol>
<li>Client Materials</li>
</ol>
<p>4.1. Ownership. Client and Raizlabs agree that title to any equipment or other materials provided by Client in connection with the Project (the “Client Materials”) will remain with Client. If use of any portion of the Client Materials by Raizlabs requires any licenses or other permissions, Client shall obtain the same at Client’s cost.</p>
<p>4.2. Return of Client Materials. Raizlabs shall use reasonable efforts to maintain and protect any equipment or materials comprising part of the Client Materials and, when requested by Client, shall return the equipment and materials at Client’s cost to the equipment’s point of origin or to Client if the equipment or materials are no longer required in connection with the Project.</p>
<ol>
<li>Proprietary Rights</li>
</ol>
<p>5.1. Ownership of Deliverables. Upon acceptance of the Deliverables and payment in full of all amounts due under this Agreement, Client shall be the owner of the Deliverables, excluding any Library Code or Third Party Software as defined below, and the intellectual property rights (including, without limitation, patent rights, copyrights and trade secret rights) therein, and Raizlabs shall assign all of its right, title and interest in such the intellectual property rights to Client.</p>
<p>5.2. Ownership of Library Code. The term “Library Code” as used in this Agreement shall mean: (1) any pre-existing modules or code segments that were developed or acquired by Raizlabs prior to any work performed on the Project, (2) any modules or code segments developed at the same time but separately from the Project and incorporated in or utilized by the Deliverables, and/or (3) any code developed as part of the Project that is general-purpose in nature and not specific to Client’s business requirements served by the Deliverables. Regarding any such Library Code, Raizlabs shall retain all ownership or other rights therein, and shall grant to Client a non-exclusive, paid-up, royalty-free license to use such Library Code as incorporated in the Deliverables solely in connection with Client’s use of the Deliverables. For the avoidance of doubt, and without limiting the foregoing, any Raizlabs-developed framework or part thereof shall be deemed to be Library Code and ownership of such code shall remain at all times with Raizlabs.</p>
<p>5.3. Confidential Information. Client and Raizlabs acknowledge that, in connection with this Agreement, either party may receive Confidential Information from the other party. “Confidential Information” means any information of a party that is either (a) disclosed in writing and clearly marked as confidential and proprietary, or (b) initially disclosed orally and designated as confidential and proprietary at the time of the initial disclosure, with written confirmation of its confidential and proprietary nature, including a description of the nature of the information so disclosed, delivered within ten (10) days after such disclosure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information shall not be deemed Confidential Information if it:</p>
<p>(a) was known to the receiving party before its initial disclosure;</p>
<p>(b) is independently developed by a party without use or incorporation of any Confidential Information of the other party;</p>
<p>(c) was in the public domain at the time of its initial disclosure or later comes within the public domain other than through the acts or omissions of the receiving party;</p>
<p>(d) is received from a third party without breach of any obligation of confidence;</p>
<p>(e) is approved for release by written authorization of the disclosing party; or</p>
<p>(f) is disclosed by the disclosing party to one or more third parties without restriction.</p>
<p>Neither party shall use Confidential Information of the other party for any purpose other than the performance of its obligations under this Agreement. Each party will restrict access to Confidential Information of the other party only to those employees and subcontractors who have a need to be informed of the Confidential Information and who have executed written confidentiality agreements providing protection for the Confidential Information comparable to the protection provided herein. Each party shall exercise reasonable precautions, at least as protective as those it follows in the case of its own valuable confidential information, to protect the Confidential Information of the other party from unauthorized use or disclosure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a party may disclose the Confidential Information of the other party if required by law or legal process, provided such party uses commercially reasonable efforts to give the other party at least forty-eight (48) hours’ notice of such required disclosure so that the other party may take actions to protect its interest in such information. The provisions of this section shall survive the termination of this Agreement for a period of five (5) years.</p>
<p>5.4 Third Party Code. Development of the Deliverables may require the use of certain software or code that is owned by third parties (the “Third Party Code”). Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the parties, Client shall be responsible for obtaining and maintaining any necessary licenses for the use of such Third Party Code in the Deliverables. For the avoidance of doubt, Third Party Code shall include any necessary Software Development Kits (“SDK”) needed to create the Deliverables, including but not limited to the then-current Apple iPhone SDK or the Google Android SDK, as applicable.</p>
<ol>
<li>Warranties and Liability</li>
</ol>
<p>6.1. Warranty; Disclaimer. Raizlabs will use reasonable efforts to perform the Services and complete the development of the Deliverables in compliance with customary professional standards. Nonetheless, Client understands that the Deliverables are a complex product that may contain errors or defects and that the progress and results of software development projects cannot be predicted with certainty. ACCORDINGLY, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” AND EXCEPT FOR THE FOREGOING EXPRESS WARRANTY, RAIZLABS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR ARISING FROM A COURSE OF DEALING, USAGE OR TRADE PRACTICE. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as an assurance that the Deliverables are free from errors or defects, will operate without interruption or will meet Client’s requirements or expectations or otherwise with regard to the Deliverables and their functionality or performance.</p>
<p>6.2. Remedies; Limitation of Liability. Client’s sole remedy in the event of any breach of this Agreement by Raizlabs shall be the correction of any defective services or, at Raizlabs’s option, the payment of damages not to exceed the amounts paid by Client allocable to such defective services. Raizlabs shall have no monetary liability, in contract, tort or otherwise, arising out of any error or defect in the Deliverables or otherwise under or related to this Agreement, except as set forth in the foregoing sentence. In any event, Raizlabs’s total liability for all matters arising under or related to this Agreement, regardless of the form of action, in contract, tort or otherwise, shall not exceed the amounts paid by Client under Sections 1.6 and 2. IN NO EVENT WILL RAIZLABS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY LOSS OF ANTICIPATED PROFITS OR BENEFITS UNDER OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT. THESE LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY ARE INDEPENDENT OF ANY REMEDIES AND, NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF THE ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF SUCH REMEDIES, WILL SURVIVE THE TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT.</p>
<p>6.3. Indemnification by Client. Client shall indemnify Raizlabs and hold it harmless from and against all loss, liability, damage and expense, including legal fees and costs of investigation, incurred by Raizlabs as a result of the following: (a) death or personal injury claims and property damage claims that arise out of the negligence or willful misconduct of Client, its agents, employees or subcontractors in performing Client’s obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent such claims arise out of the negligence or willful misconduct of Raizlabs, its agents, employees or subcontractors; and/or (b) any claim by a third party that arises out of Client’s use or distribution of the Deliverables, to the extent such claims allege that use or distribution of any portion of the Client Materials infringes the copyrights of a third party.</p>
<p>6.4. Indemnification by Raizlabs. Raizlabs shall indemnify Client and hold it harmless from and against all loss, liability, damage and expense, including legal fees and costs of investigation, incurred by Client as a result of the following: (a) death or personal injury claims and property damage claims that arise out of the negligence or willful misconduct of Raizlabs, its agents, employees or subcontractors in performing Raizlabs’ obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent such claims arise out of the negligence or willful misconduct of Client, its agents, employees or subcontractors; and/or (b) any claim by a third party that arises out of an alleged infringement of said third party’s copyright by virtue of Client’s use of the Deliverables, except with respect to any such alleged infringement relating to Third Party Code or any materials provided by Client.</p>
<p>6.5. Maintenance and Support. Raizlabs shall have no obligation to provide support unless a separate written agreement, included within an applicable Statement of Work, enter into maintenance with respect to the Deliverables.</p>
<p>6.6. Client Acknowledgment. Client has reviewed and understands the disclaimers and limitations contained in this Section 6 and accepts and agrees to such disclaimers and limitations in consideration of Raizlabs’s agreement to develop the Deliverables for the price and on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Client acknowledges that Raizlabs would not be willing to develop the Deliverables for such price and on such terms and conditions if Client did not accept such disclaimers and limitations contained.</p>
<ol>
<li>Term and Termination</li>
</ol>
<p>7.1. Term. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and expire on the date the Deliverables are accepted under Section 1.4, subject to earlier termination as provided herein. The term of this Agreement may be renewed upon the execution of each new Statement of Work signed by the parties, and such renewed term shall terminate upon acceptance of the Deliverables to be developed under each such Statement of Work, subject to earlier termination as provided herein.</p>
<p>7.2. Termination For Convenience. Subject to the terms set forth at Section 7.4 of this Agreement, Client or Raizlabs may terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, upon thirty (30) days’ prior written notice to the other party. No such termination shall release either party from any rights, liabilities or obligations accruing under this Agreement prior to the date of such termination.</p>
<p>7.3. Non-payment. Raizlabs may terminate this Agreement by written notice to Client if Client fails to make any payment then due within five (5) business days after written demand.</p>
<p>7.4. Effect of Termination. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, all rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall cease, except for the following:</p>
<p>(a) in the event of a termination, Client will make all payments of any fees accrued on or prior to the date of termination, including pro-rata fees for any work performed in connection with a fixed fee Project;</p>
<p>(b) the obligations of the parties under Sections 1.7(d), 2, 4.2, 5, 6.2, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, this Section 7.4 and 8, shall survive such expiration or earlier termination.</p>
<ol>
<li>Miscellaneous Provisions</li>
</ol>
<p>8.1. Hiring of Employees. During the term of this Agreement and for a period of two (2) years after the expiration or termination of this Agreement, Client will not employ or solicit for employment, directly or indirectly, any employee of Raizlabs who was involved in the Project, unless more than one (1) year has elapsed since the date the employee was last employed by Raizlabs. In the event of any breach of this Section, Client shall immediately pay to Raizlabs, as liquidated damages, an amount equal to twice the annual salary paid at the time breach to the employee who is the subject of the breach.</p>
<p>8.2. Relationship of Parties. The relationship of the parties hereto shall be that of independent contractors. Neither party shall have any power or right, as agent or otherwise, to bind the other party in any matter or thing. Nothing herein shall be construed to create any partnership, joint venture or similar relationship, or to subject the parties to any implied duties or obligations respecting the conduct of their affairs which are not expressly stated herein.</p>
<p>8.3. Interest and Costs of Collection. Any amount not paid when due hereunder shall bear interest until paid in full at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.50%) per month or part of a month, but not greater than the highest rate permitted by applicable law. In the event that it is necessary for Raizlabs to commence legal proceedings to collect amounts due hereunder, Raizlabs shall be entitled to recover from Client its reasonable costs of suit and collection, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.</p>
<p>8.4. Assignment and Change in Control. Client may not assign, delegate or otherwise transfer this Agreement, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Raizlabs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Client may assign this Agreement and delegate its rights and obligations hereunder to a person or entity that succeeds to all or substantially all of the assets and business of Client related to this Agreement by merger or purchase. Raizlabs mat freely assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties and any successors and assigns permitted by this Section 8.4.</p>
<p>8.5. Effect of Waiver. The failure of either party to enforce any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of that provision or any other provision of this Agreement.</p>
<p>8.6. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be responsible for any delay or failure in performance, except with regard to payment obligations, resulting from acts beyond the control of such party. Such acts shall include but shall not be limited to: acts of God, acts of war, riots, epidemics, fire, flood or other disasters, acts of government and strikes or lock outs.</p>
<p>8.7. Third Party Beneficiaries. There are no third party beneficiaries to this Agreement.</p>
<p>8.8. Choice of Law and Forum. This Agreement and all matters arising from or relating to this Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to its provisions regarding the choice or conflict of laws. Any suit hereunder will be brought solely in the federal or state courts in Boston, Massachusetts and Client hereby submits to the personal jurisdiction thereof. The parties agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is specifically excluded in its entirety from application to this Agreement.</p>
<p>8.9. Limitation of Actions. No legal action, regardless of its form, related to or arising out of this Agreement may be brought by either party more than one (1) year after the cause of action first accrued.</p>
<p>8.10. Notice. All notices under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be considered to have been duly given or served when personally delivered to the receiving party by hand, fax, email or comparable means, or on the first day after the date of deposit with an overnight courier for next day delivery, postage prepaid, or on the third day after deposit in the United States mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, postage prepaid; addressed, in all cases, to the respective addresses set forth on the signature page of this Agreement or to such other address as any party may hereafter designate by written notice to the other party.</p>
<p>8.11. Severability. The terms and conditions of this Agreement are severable. If any term or condition of this Agreement is deemed to be illegal or unenforceable under any rule of law, all other terms shall remain in force. Further, the term or condition which is held to be illegal or unenforceable shall remain in effect as far as possible in accordance with the intention of the parties.</p>
<p>8.12. Entire Agreement. The parties hereto agree that the Statement(s) of Work form a part of this Agreement and that this Agreement, including the Statement(s) of Work, represents the complete and exclusive statement of the Agreement between the parties, and supersedes all prior proposals and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Statement of Work, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.</p>
<p>8.13. Modification of Agreement. This Agreement may be amended only by a writing executed on behalf of the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives.</p>
<p>8.14. Compliance with Laws. Client agrees to comply with all applicable laws and is responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for obtaining any and all governmental licenses and approvals that may be required in connection with this Agreement.</p>
<p>By entering into a Statement of Work, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed on their respective behalves by their duly authorized officers.</p>
